.. _per-product-limits:

******************************************************************
Per product system limits in Splunk Observability Cloud
******************************************************************

.. meta::
   :description: System limits for each product.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   Infrastructure system limits <system-limits/sys-limits-infra>
   APM system limits <system-limits/sys-limits-apm>
   RUM system limits <system-limits/sys-limits-rum>

Each Observability Cloud product has a maximum number of MTS you can create per minute. For example, if you create 5,500 MTS in the first minute in Infrastructure Monitoring, you'll have to wait until the next minute to create more MTS. However, in the first minute you can also create another 6,000 more MTS for any other product you use.

.. caution:: New MTS exceeding the limit are dropped without returning an error. Data points for existing MTS are still accepted.

.. _mts-limits-per-product:

MTS limits per product
==============================================================

The following table shows MTS creation limits for each Observability Cloud product:

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :widths: 20 40 40
  :width: 100%

  * - :strong:`Product`
    - :strong:`Default MTS-per-minute limit`
    - :strong:`Learn more`

  * - Infrastructure Monitoring
    - 6,000 or determined by your subscription
    - :ref:`sys-limits`

  * - APM
    - 6,000 or determined by your subscription
    - :ref:`apm-system-limits`

  * - RUM
    - 6,000 or determined by your subscription
    - :ref:`rum-limits`

  * - Synthetics
    - 6,000 or determined by your subscription
    - N/A

  * - Logs
    - N/A
    - :ref:`Log Observer Connect limits <lo-connect-limits>`

* Infrastructure Monitoring limit includes MTS generated by Network Explorer and metrics pipeline management.


.. _set-up-limit-alerting:

Set up limit alerting
==============================================================

You can set up metric limits alerting to manage your resource usage on a per product basis. Related metrics include:

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1
  :widths: 50 50
  :width: 100%

  * - :strong:`Metric name`
    - :strong:`Description`

  * - ``sf.org.numMetricTimeSeriesCreatedByDatapointType``
    - Number of MTS generated by each product
  * - ``sf.org.limit.metricTimeSeriesCreatedPerMinute``
    - MTS creations per minute limit for Infrastructure Monitoring in your organization
  * - ``sf.org.apm.limit.metricTimeSeriesCreatedPerMinute``
    - MTS creations per minute limit for APM in your organization
  * - ``sf.org.rum.limit.metricTimeSeriesCreatedPerMinute``
    - MTS creations per minute limit for RUM in your organization
  * - ``sf.org.synthetics.limit.metricTimeSeriesCreatedPerMinute``
    - MTS creations per minute limit for Synthetics in your organization
  * - ``sf.org.numThrottledMetricTimeSeriesCreateCallsByDatapointType``
    - Number of MTS that each product wasn't able to create because you significantly exceeded your per minute MTS creation limit
  * - ``sf.org.numDatapointsDroppedInTimeout``
    -  Number of data points Infrastructure Monitoring didn't attempt to create because your account was throttled or limited in the previous few seconds and creation was unlikely to succeed
  * - ``sf.org.apm.numDatapointsDroppedInTimeout``
    -  Number of data points APM didn't attempt to create because your account was throttled or limited in the previous few seconds and creation was unlikely to succeed          
  * - ``sf.org.rum.numDatapointsDroppedInTimeout``
    -  Number of data points RUM didn't attempt to create because your account was throttled or limited in the previous few seconds and creation was unlikely to succeed          
  * - ``sf.org.synthetics.numDatapointsDroppedInTimeout``
    -  Number of data points Synthetics didn't attempt to create because your account was throttled or limited in the previous few seconds and creation was unlikely to succeed     

See more in :ref:`org-metrics`.

.. _data-limits-throttling:

System limits and data throttling
==============================================================

Observability Cloud products have system limits to protect the service's performance, stability, and reliability. If you exceed those limits, the platform might start to throttle the data you send in, and slow down ingest. 

.. note:: Throttling starts after you've exceeded your system limits. All data sent within your limits is ingested.

You can track if your usage is reaching your subscription limits or if your data is being throttled with certain Observability Cloud's org metrics. See how in :ref:`org-metrics-throttling`.
