(filesystems)=

# Free disk space

<meta name="description" content="Use this Splunk Observability Cloud integrationfor the file systems / filesystems monitor. See benefits, install, configuration, and metrics">

## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `filesystem` monitor type for the Smart Agent Receiver.

This monitor reports metrics about free disk space on mounted devices.

On Linux hosts, this monitor relies on the `/proc` filesystem. If the underlying host`/proc` file system is mounted somewhere other than `/proc`, specify the path using the top level configuration `procPath`, as shown in the following example:

```yaml
procPath: /hostfs/proc
monitors:
 - type: filesystems
   hostFSPath: /hostfs
```

This monitor does not accept endpoints. This monitor does allow multiple instances.

## Migrating from collectd/df

The `collectd/df` monitor is being deprecated in favor of the `filesystems`
monitor.  While the `collectd/df` monitor will still be available in
version 5.0, switch to the `filesystems` monitor soon after upgrading. There are a few incompatibilities to be aware of between the two monitors:

 - `collectd/df` used a dimension called `plugin_instance` to identify the
   mount point or device of the filesystem.  This dimension is completely
   removed in the `filesystems` monitor and replaced by the `mountpoint`
   and `device` dimensions.  You no longer have to select between the two
   (the `reportByDevice` option on `collectd/df`) as both are always
   reported.

 - The mountpoints in the `plugin_instance` dimension of `collectd/df`
   were reported with `-` instead of the more conventional `/` separated
   path segments.  The `filesystems` monitor always reports mountpoints in
   the `mountpoint` dimension and uses the conventional `/` separator.

 - The `collectd/df` plugin set a dimension `plugin: df` on all data points, but `filesystems` has no such comparable dimension.

## Installation

This monitor is available in the Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.
2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note**: Providing a filesystems monitor entry in your Collector or Smart Agent (deprecated) configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

If you are using the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector and want to collect file system utilization metrics, use the {ref}`host-metrics-receiver`.

### Smart Agent

If you are using this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: filesystems
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for this monitor.

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `hostFSPath` | no | `string` | Path to the root of the host filesystem.  It is useful when running in a container and the host filesystem is mounted in a subdirectory under /.  The disk usage metrics emitted will be based at this path. |
| `fsTypes` | no | `list of strings` | The filesystem types to include/exclude.  This is an [overridable set](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#filtering-data-using-the-smart-agent). If this is not set, the default value is the set of all **non-logical/virtual filesystems** on the system.  On Linux this list is determined by reading the `/proc/filesystems` file and choosing the filesystems that do not have the `nodev` modifier. |
| `mountPoints` | no | `list of strings` | The mount paths to include/exclude. This is an [overridable set](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#filtering-data-using-the-smart-agent). **Note**: If you are using the hostFSPath option, do not include the `/hostfs/` mount in the filter.  If both this and `fsTypes` are specified, the two filters combine in an AND relationship. |
| `sendModeDimension` | no | `bool` | Set to `true` to emit the "mode" dimension, which represents whether the mount is "rw" or "ro". (**default:** `false`) |

## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/filesystems/metadata.yaml"></div>

```{include} /_includes/metric-defs.md
```

## Get help

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
