(statsd)=

# Statsd
<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the statsd monitor">


## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `statsd` monitor type using the Smart Agent Receiver.

Use this monitor to collect statsd metrics. This monitor listens on a configured address and port to receive the statsd metrics. The monitor supports the `Counter`, `Timer`, `Gauge`, and `Set` types, which are dispatched as the Splunk Observability Cloud types `counter`, `gauge`, `gauge`, and `gauge` respectively. Statsd extensions such as tags are not supported.

This integration is available for Kubernetes and Linux.

### Benefits

```{include} /_includes/benefits.md
```

## Installation

```{include} /_includes/collector-installation-linux.md
```

```{note}
This monitor is not available on Windows.
```

### Verifying the installation

To verify the installation, send statsd metrics locally with `netcat` as follows, then verify in Observability Cloud that the metric arrived:

```
$ echo "statsd.test:1|g" | nc -w 1 -u 127.0.0.1 8125
```

For Kubernetes environments, use the `status.hostIP` environment variable to verify the installation. This environment variable is the IP address of the node where the pod is running. 

## Configuration

```{include} /_includes/configuration.md
```

```{note}
Provide a StatsD monitor entry in your Collector or Smart Agent (deprecated) configuration. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.
```

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml 
receivers:
  smartagent/statsd:
    type: statsd
    ...  # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/statsd` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file. For example:

```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [smartagent/statsd]
```

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
  - type: statsd
    ...  # Additional config
```

See {ref}`smart-agent` for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for the `statsd` monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `listenAddress` | No | `string` | The host or address on which to bind the UDP listener that accepts statsd datagrams. The default value is `localhost`. |
| `listenPort` | No | `integer` | The port on which to listen for statsd messages. The default value is `8125`. |
| `metricPrefix` | No | `string` | A prefix in metric names that needs to be removed before metric name conversion. |
| `converters` | No | `list of objects (see below)` | A list converters to convert statsd metric names into SignalFx metric names and dimensions. |

The nested `converters` configuration object has the following fields:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pattern` | No | `string` | A pattern to match against statsd metric names. |
| `metricName` | No | `string` | A format to compose a metric name to report to Splunk Observability Cloud. |

The Smart Agent and Collector don't do any built-in filtering of metrics that come out of this monitor.

## Metrics

This section describes how metrics can be collected with this monitor.

### Adding dimensions to statsd metrics

The statsd monitor can parse keywords from a statsd metric name by a set of converters configured by a user, as shown in the following example:

```yaml
converters:
  - pattern: "cluster.cds_{traffic}_{mesh}_{service}-vn_{}.{action}"
    ...
```

This converter parses `traffic`, `mesh`, `service`, and `action` as dimensions from the `cluster.cds_egress_ecommerce-demo-mesh_gateway-vn_tcp_8080.update_success` metric. If a section has only a pair of brackets without a name, it does not capture a dimension.

When multiple converters are provided, a metric is converted by the first converter with a matching pattern to the metric name.

### Formatting metric name

You can customize a metric name by providing a format string within the converter configuration, as shown in the following example:

```yaml
converters:
  - pattern: "cluster.cds_{traffic}_{mesh}_{service}-vn_{}.{action}"
    metricName: "{traffic}.{action}"
```

The metrics that match to the given pattern are reported to Infrastructure Monitoring as `{traffic}.{action}`.
For instance, metric `cluster.cds_egress_ecommerce-demo-mesh_gateway-vn_tcp_8080.update_success` is reported as `egress.update_success`.

`metricName` is required for a converter configuration. A converter is disabled if `metricName` is not provided.

Data points get a `host` dimension of the current host that the agent is running on, not the host from which the statsd metric was sent. For this reason, send statsd metrics to a local agent instance. If you don't want the `host` dimension, you can set `disableHostDimensions: true` on the monitor configuration.

## Get help

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```