(conviva)=

# Conviva Real-Time/Live video play

<meta name="Description" content="Use this Splunk Observability Cloud integration for the Conviva monitor. See benefits, install, configuration, and metrics, including MetricLens">

## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `conviva` monitor using the Smart Agent receiver.

This monitor uses version 2.4 of the Conviva Experience Insights REST APIs to pull
`Real-Time/Live` video playing experience metrics from Conviva.

Only `Live` conviva metrics listed on the
[Conviva Developer Community](https://community.conviva.com/site/global/apis_data/experience_insights_api/index.gsp#metrics) page are supported. All metrics are gauges. The Conviva metrics are converted to Splunk Observability Cloud metrics with dimensions named account and filter. The account dimension is the name of the Conviva account and the filter dimension is the name of the Conviva filter applied to the metric. In the case of MetricLenses, the constituent MetricLens metrics and MetricLens dimensions are included. The values of the MetricLens dimensions are derived from the values of the associated MetricLens dimension entities.

## Installation

This monitor is available in the Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.
2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a Conviva monitor entry in your Collector or Smart Agent (deprecated) configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:  

```
receivers:
  smartagent/conviva:
    type: conviva
    ... # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/conviva` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: conviva
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for this monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pulseUsername` | **yes** | `string` | Conviva Pulse username required with each API request. |
| `pulsePassword` | **yes** | `string` | Conviva Pulse password required with each API request. |
| `timeoutSeconds` | no | `integer` |  (**default:** `10`) |
| `metricConfigs` | no | `list of objects (see below)` | Conviva metrics to fetch. The default is quality_metriclens metric with the "All Traffic" filter applied and all quality_metriclens dimensions. |


The **nested** `metricConfigs` configuration object has the following fields:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `account` | no | `string` | Conviva customer account name. The default account is fetched used if not specified. |
| `metricParameter` | no | `string` |  (**default:** `quality_metriclens`) |
| `filters` | no | `list of strings` | Filter names. The default is `All Traffic` filter. |
| `metricLensDimensions` | no | `list of strings` | MetricLens dimension names. The default is names of all MetricLens dimensions of the account |
| `excludeMetricLensDimensions` | no | `list of strings` | MetricLens dimension names to exclude. |
| `maxFiltersPerRequest` | no | `integer` | Max number of filters per request. The default is the number of filters. Multiple requests are made if the number of filters is more than maxFiltersPerRequest (**default:** `0`) |

## Example configurations

This section provides a basic YAML configuration of the Conviva monitor using only the required fields. For this configuration, the monitor will default to fetching quality MetricLens metrics for all dimensions from the default Conviva account using the `All Traffic` filter.

```
monitors:
- type: conviva
 pulseUsername: <username>
 pulsePassword: <password>
```

Individual metrics are configured as a list of metricConfigs, as shown in the following sample configuration. The
metrics are fetched using the specified metricParameter. See the list of metric parameters in the [metrics](#metrics) section.

The Conviva metrics reported to Observability Cloud are prefixed by `conviva.`, `conviva.quality_metriclens.` and
`conviva.audience_metriclens.` accordingly. The metric names are the `titles` of the metrics, which correspond to the Conviva
`metric parameters` on the [Conviva Developer Community](https://community.conviva.com/site/global/apis_data/experience_insights_api/index.gsp#metrics) page.

Where an account is not provided, the default account is fetched and used. Where no filters are specified the
`All Traffic` filter is used. Where `MetricLens` dimensions are not specified, all `MetricLens` dimensions
are fetched and used. The `_ALL_` keyword means all. `MetricLens` dimension configuration applies only to `MetricLenses`.
If specified for a regular metric, they will be ignored. `MetricLens` dimensions listed in `excludeMetricLensDimensions`
are excluded.

```
monitors:
- type: conviva
 pulseUsername: <username>
 pulsePassword: <password>
 metricConfigs:
   - account: c3.NBC
     metricParameter: quality_metriclens
     filters:
       - All Traffic
     metricLensDimensions:
       - Cities
   - metricParameter: avg_bitrate
     maxFiltersPerRequest: 99
     filters:
       - _ALL_
   - metricParameter: concurrent_plays
   - metricParameter: audience_metriclens
     filters:
       - All Traffic
     metricLensDimensions:
       - _ALL_
     excludeMetricLensDimensions:
       - CDNs
```

Add the extra dimension metric_source, as shown in following sample configuration for the convenience of searching
for your metrics in SignalFx using the metric_source value you specify. Also, version 2.4 of the Conviva Experience
Insights REST APIs limits the number of filters per request to 99. Specify the maximum number of filters per request
using `maxFiltersPerRequest`, as shown in the previous example to limit the number of filters per request.

```
monitors:
- type: conviva
 pulseUsername: <username>
 pulsePassword: <password>
 extraDimensions:
   metric_source: conviva
```
## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/conviva/metadata.yaml"></div>

## Get help

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
