(net-io)=

# Network interface I/O

<meta name="description" content="Use this Splunk Observability Cloud integration for the net-io monitor. See benefits, install, configuration, and metrics">


## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `net-io` monitor type for the Smart Agent Receiver.

This monitor reports I/O metrics about network interfaces.


## Installation

This monitor is available in the Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.

2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.


## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a `net-io` monitor entry in your Collector or Smart Agent (deprecated) configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

If you are using the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector and want to collect network interface I/O and TCP connection metrics, use the {ref}`host-metrics-receiver`.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
  - type: net-io
    ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for the `net-io` monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `interfaces` | no | `list of strings` | The network interfaces to send metrics about. This is an [overridable set](https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#filtering-data-using-the-smart-agent). (**default:** `[* !/^lo\d*$/ !/^docker.*/ !/^t(un|ap)\d*$/ !/^veth.*$/ !/^Loopback*/]`) |

On Linux hosts, this monitor relies on the `/proc` filesystem. If the underlying host's `/proc` file system is mounted somewhere other than `/proc`, specify the path using the top-level configuration `procPath`, as shown in the following example:

```yaml
procPath: /proc
monitors:
 - type: net-io
```

## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/netio/metadata.yaml"></div>

## Get help

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
