(hadoop)=
# Hadoop
<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the hadoop monitor">

## Description

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector provides this integration as the Hadoop monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver.

This monitor collects metrics about a Hadoop 2.0+ cluster using the Hadoop Python plugin. If a remote JMX port is exposed in the Hadoop cluster, then you can also configure the hadoopjmx monitor to collect additional metrics about the Hadoop cluster.

The Hadoop monitor collects metrics from the Resource Manager REST API for the following components:

- Cluster Metrics
- Cluster Scheduler
- Cluster Applications
- Cluster Nodes
- MapReduce Jobs

## Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:
1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.
2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a Hadoop monitor entry in your Collector or Smart Agent (deprecated) configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
receivers:
  smartagent/hadoop:
    type: collectd/hadoop
    ...  # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/hadoop` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: collectd/hadoop
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for this monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `pythonBinary` | no | `string` | Path to a python binary that should be used to execute the Python code. If not set, a built-in runtime will be used.  Can include arguments to the binary as well. |
| `host` | **yes** | `string` | Resource Manager Hostname |
| `port` | **yes** | `integer` | Resource Manager Port |
| `verbose` | no | `bool` | Log verbose information about the plugin (**default:** `false`) |

## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/integrations/main/hadoop/metrics.yaml"></div>

## Get help

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
