Statushub is a status page that connects with your monitoring tools to
communicate infrastructure status to stakeholders.

The following guide will walk you through the steps required to
integrate StatusHub with VictorOps.

**In StatusHub**
================

From the main portal, click the small pencil icon to “edit status site.”

..image:: /_images/spoc/StatusHub_-_Bulletproof__hosted_status_pages_for_your_web_application_or_service.jpg

This will bring you to the edit status site page, shown below, where you
will select the “Services & Integrations” option on the left side menu.

..image:: /_images/spoc/StatusHub_-_Bulletproof__hosted_status_pages_for_your_web_application_or_service-4.jpg

To link an existing service, you can click on the pencil icon, or use
the “New service” button to add a new service that will be linked to
VictorOps.

..image:: /_images/spoc/4.jpg

If you have opted to create a new service, be sure to give it an
appropriate name that you and your customers will recognize, select the
VictorOps option, and assign in to the relevant group.

Otherwise, you should select the VictorOps option, then hit “Update
Service”, and StatusHub will generate a webhook to use in VictorOps.

..image:: /_images/spoc/2-3.jpg

Once you have done this, your service will appear under the group you
previously selected.  Copy the key (string after the equals sign,
underlined below) to your clipboard for later use.

..image:: /_images/spoc/4-1.jpg

**In VictorOps**
----------------

In VictorOps, select *Settings >> Alert Behavior >> Rules Engine*.  You
will create one Rules Engine rule for each service you have on
StatusHub.

..image:: /_images/spoc/rulesengine2.png

After clicking the green “+ Add a Rule”, you will set your matching
criteria for the alerts that you would like to update StatusHub.  For
example, if you would like all Cloudwatch activity reflected on
StatusHub, you could set the criteria to be when ‘monitoring_tool'
matches ‘Cloudwatch'.

You will then set a new field (StatusHubfield in the example) to the key
included in the Webhook URL generated by StatusHub.

..image:: /_images/spoc/Alert_Rules_-_Ops_Learning-1.jpg

After creating one of these Rules Engine rules for each service you
would like to integrate with StatusHub, and after giving each unique
rule the corresponding ‘key' from StatusHub, you will create an Outgoing
Webhook.

To access this page, select *Settings >> Alert Behavior >> Integrations
>> Outgoing Webhooks.*

..image:: /_images/spoc/outgoingwebhooks.png

Click the green “+ Add Webhook” to create your webhook.

..image:: /_images/spoc/Outgoing_Webhooks_-_Ops_Learning.jpg

Be sure you have selected the “Any-Incident” option from the event
drop-down.

Select “POST” for the Method

Paste one of the full Webhook URL's for one of your services from
StatusHub into the ‘To' field.  Then, delete the string after the equals
sign and replace it with ${{ALERT.StatusHubfield}}.  This will
dynamically pull in the Webhook ‘key' for your specific service, thus
completing the URL so that StatusHub can be updated.

Additionally, leave the payload blank.  StatusHub will automatically
pull the Incident's entity_display_name to be the Title of the Incident
on StatusHub, and the state_message to be the incident's details.

..image:: /_images/spoc/2-1.jpg

View when the webhook is saved:

..image:: /_images/spoc/5.jpg

You are all set.

To test the webhook, create an incident with the appropriate criteria to
trigger one of the Rules Engine rules you created. If everything works,
your StatusHub page will update.
