(telegraf-dns)=

# DNS Query Input

<meta name="description" content="Documentation on the telegraf/dns monitor">

## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the `telegraf/dns` monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver. This is an embedded form of the Telegraf DNS Query plugin.

##  Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.

2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

This Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a DNS Query Input monitor entry in your Smart Agent or Collector configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Smart Agent
To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: telegraf/dns
   ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```yaml
receivers:
  smartagent/dns:
    type: telegraf/dns
    ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

**Note:** Include monitors with event-sending functionality as members of a `logs` pipeline that utilizes an exporter that makes the event submission requests. Use a Resource Detection processor to ensure that host identity and other useful information is made available as event dimensions.

### Configuration settings 

The following table shows the configuration options for this monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `domains` | no | `list of strings` | Domains or subdomains to query. If this is not provided, it is `["."]` and `RecordType` is forced to `NS`. |
| `network` | no | `string` | Network is the network protocol name. (**default:** `udp`) |
| `port` | no | `integer` | DNS server port. (**default:** `53`) |
| `servers` | **yes** | `list of strings` | Servers to query. |
| `recordType` | no | `string` | Query record type (A, AAAA, CNAME, MX, NS, PTR, TXT, SOA, SPF, SRV). (**default:** `NS`) |
| `timeout` | no | `int64` | Query timeout. Use a duration string that is accepted by https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration. (**default:** `2s`) |

## Metrics
The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/telegraf/monitors/dns/metadata.yaml"></div>

## Get help

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```