.. _get-started-o11y:

*************************
Monitor your applications
*************************

.. meta::
   :description: Learn about how you can monitor your infrastructure, applications, user experiences, and troubleshoot with logs in the Obersvability Cloud.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   infrastructure
   logs
   apm
   rum
   use-case

The following sections describe how to start exporting and monitoring metrics, 
logs, and spans from your infrastructure and services in Splunk Observability Cloud. 

:strong:`Step 1. Export metrics, logs, and spans`

Check out the :ref:`get-started-get-data-in` guide to start sending data 
from your infrastructure and services to Observability Cloud.

Export data with supported integrations. 
Configure integrations directly in your Observability Cloud environment. 
You have to be an Observability Cloud administrator to configure integrations. 

:strong:`Step 2. Monitor your infrastructure and services`

After you get data in, 
start monitoring your infrastructure and 
services and investigate the root cause of any incidents. 

There are a few ways to monitor and investigate issues in Observability Cloud, 
depending on which data types and sources you are exporting and what you want to monitor. 
See the following table for use cases in Observability Cloud:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30, 70

   * - :strong:`Use case`
     - :strong:`Description`

   * - :ref:`get-started-infrastructure`
     - Analyze the performance of cloud services, hosts, and containers. View the health of your infrastructure at a glance.

   * - :ref:`get-started-apm`
     - Analyze the performance of applications down to the micro-service level. Monitor inbound and outbound dependencies for each service. Break down service performance by metadata associated with spans. 

   * - :ref:`get-started-rum`
     - Analyze the performance of web applications. Keep track of how users are interacting with your front-end services, including page load times and responsiveness.

   * - :ref:`get-started-logs` 
     - Troubleshoot incidents with your infrastructure and cloud services.