(microsoft-sql-server)=

# Microsoft SQL Server

<meta name="description" content="Use this Splunk Observability Cloud integration for the Microsoft SQL / MSQL monitor. See benefits, install, configuration, and metrics">

## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the Microsoft SQL Server monitor type for the Smart Agent Receiver. This monitor sends metrics from Microsoft SQL Server instances. The monitor is based on the `sqlserver` plugin.

To use the monitor, you need to create login credentials in the Microsoft SQL Server host. To create this login, follow these steps:

1. Log in as an administrator.

2. Start an SQL client.

3. Enter the following commands:

```
USE master;
GO
CREATE LOGIN [signalfxagent] WITH PASSWORD = '<YOUR PASSWORD HERE>';
GO
GRANT VIEW SERVER STATE TO [signalfxagent];
GO
GRANT VIEW ANY DEFINITION TO [signalfxagent];
GO
```

## Installation

This monitor is available in the Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.

2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a Microsoft SQL Server monitor entry in your Collector or Smart Agent (deprecated) configuration is required for its use. Use the appropriate form for your agent type.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

To activate this monitor in the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
receivers:
  smartagent/sqlserver:
    type: telegraf/sqlserver
    ...  # Additional config
```

To complete the monitor activation, you must also include the `smartagent/sqlserver` receiver item in a `metrics` pipeline. To do this, add the receiver item to the `service` > `pipelines` > `metrics` > `receivers` section of your configuration file.

See <a href="https://github.com/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector/tree/main/examples" target="_blank">configuration examples</a> for specific use cases that show how the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector can integrate and complement existing environments.

### Smart Agent

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
  - type: telegraf/sqlserver
    ...  # Additional config
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.

### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for the Microsoft SQL Server monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `host` | **yes** | `string` |  |
| `port` | **yes** | `integer` |  |
| `userID` | no | `string` | UserID used to access the SQL Server instance. |
| `password` | no | `string` | Password used to access the SQL Server instance. |
| `appName` | no | `string` | The app name used by the monitor when connecting to the SQLServer. (**default:** `signalfxagent`) |
| `queryVersion` | no | `integer` | The version of queries to use when accessing the cluster. Refer to the documentation for the Microsoft SQL Server Telegraf Plugin, provided by Influxdata. (**default:** `2`) |
| `azureDB` | no | `bool` | Whether the database is a Microsoft Azure database. (**default:** `false`) |
| `excludedQueries` | no | `list of strings` | Queries to exclude. Possible values are `PerformanceCounters`, `WaitStatsCategorized`, `DatabaseIO`, `DatabaseProperties`, `CPUHistory`, `DatabaseSize`, `DatabaseStats`, `MemoryClerk` `VolumeSpace`, and `PerformanceMetrics`. |
| `log` | no | `unsigned integer` | Log level to use when accessing the database (**default:** `1`) |

### Examples

The following is an example of a Microsoft SQL Server receiver configuration:

```yaml
receivers:
  smartagent/sqlserver:
     type: telegraf/sqlserver
     host: <host_name>
     port: 1433
     userID: <user_id>
     password: <password>
     appName: sqlserver
```

The following is an example of a Microsoft SQL Server monitor configuration:

```yaml
monitors:
 - type: telegraf/sqlserver
   host: <host_name>
   port: 1433
   userID: <user_id>
   password: <password>
   appName: signalfxagent
```

Ensure that `port` and `appName` are _always_ set to the values stated in this example.

## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/integrations/main/microsoft-sql-server/metrics.yaml"></div>

## Troubleshooting

In some Windows-based SQL Server instances, TCP/IP has been deactivated by default. You might encounter this in a Microsoft Azure service instance. If you see error messages similar to `Cannot read handshake packet: read tcp: wsarecv: An existing connection was forcibly closed by the remote host.`, you need to explicitly activate TCP/IP for the instance.

1. Verify agent configurations are correct.

2. In your SQL Server instance, activate TCP/IP. To do this, select **Start** > **Administrative Tools** > **Computer Management**.

3. In the `Computer Management` sidebar, select **Services and Applications** > **SQL Server Configuration Manager** > **SQL Server Network Configuration**.

4. Select **Protocols for `<YOUR SQL SERVER NAME>`**.

5. In the protocol list to the right, right-click the **TCP/IP** protocol and select **Enable**.

## Get help

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
