.. _o11y-ai:

**********************************************************************************
AI Assistant in Observability Cloud
**********************************************************************************

.. meta::
   :description: Learn to use the AI Assistant in Observability Cloud.

The AI Assistant in Observability Cloud provides fast, deep insights that leverage observability data (metrics, traces, logs, and alerts). Users can access these insights in an intuitive chat interface within their existing workflow in Splunk Observability Cloud.

You can use the AI Assistant to do the following:

* Get quick insights into your metrics, charts, traces, incident alerts, dashboards, services, and errors

* Troubleshoot faster in Splunk APM and Splunk Infrastructure Monitoring

* Search metrics, charts, and alerts

* Generate SignalFlow based on your question in natural language

The AI Assistant provides an intelligent chatbot experience to empower users to craft complex SignalFlow by simply writing plain English prompts.

The AI Assistant has access only to data from Splunk APM and Splunk Infrastructure Monitoring. While you can access the assistant throughout Splunk Observability Cloud, responses are geared toward use cases for APM, Infrastructure Monitoring, and Log Observer Connect.

What is supported
==================================================================================
The AI Assistant understands and supports natural language. The assistant responds in natural language with a summary of insights synthesized from multiple sources. Currently, the assistant supports only English. 

How to access the AI Assistant in Observability Cloud
==================================================================================
To access the AI Assistant in Observability Cloud, select the AI Assistant icon from the toolbar on the right side.

..  image:: /_images/rum/mobile-use-case-overview.png
    :width: 100%
    :alt: This image shows the location of the AI Assistant for Observability.

Enter your prompt in plain English in the text box. Ask about anything in your environment.


Alternatively, you can select from the two suggested prompts:

* List active incidents
* List services experiencing high error rates

..  image:: /_images/rum/mobile-use-case-overview.png
    :width: 100%
    :alt: This image shows the location of the AI Assistant for Observability.

Context limitations
==================================================================================
Context length is the amount of text that the AI assistant can process in a single conversation due to LLM limitations. Think of it as the short-term memory of the AI assistant. Each interaction with the assistant is limited to the context set from the beginning of that conversation. The AI Assistant tells you when you exceed the chat limit and prompts you to copy the information that you want to save and start a new chat to continue. Select the New chat button in the upper right corner of the assistant to create a new chat with a new context.

Chat history
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
You can only access the most recent chat interaction within the last thirty days.

ChatId
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chatid is the unique identifier for each AI Assistant in Observability Cloud conversation. Use ChatId when you want to report something about a particular conversation. Find it near the top of the chat below AI Assistant.

Data sharing and use
==================================================================================
When you interact with AI Assistant in Observability, Splunk collects and might use inputs, outputs, grounding data, feedback, and usage data to provide and maintain the the AI Assistant in Observability, comply with applicable law, enforce our policies, and develop and improve the AI Assistant in Observability, including to train AI models.  If you do not want your data used for these purposes, do not click on the button and do not install, download, access, or otherwise use AI Assistant in Observability. The following table explains the categories of data the assistant collects:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15, 50

   * - :strong:`Category`
     - :strong:`Description`
   * - User prompts or inputs 
     - Refers to a question or an input by a user to the AI Assistant. Examples are “Show me all K8 nodes with more than 90% memory utilization”, and “What is wrong with my payment service?”
   * - Grounding observability data
     - Refers to observability metrics, traces, and logs data. Not every user prompt may require grounding observability data. For environment-specific questions like “What is wrong with my payment service?”, the assistant leverages payment service-related observability data to answer the question.
   * - Assistant responses
     - Refer to the output generated by the AI assistant. This might contain observability data in a summarized text chart form. 
   * - Feedback
     - Refers to any user-entered feedback.
   * - Usage data
     - Usage data is more fully described in the Splunk Privacy Statement. Examples include “thumbs up”, “thumbs down”, “chat id”, “copy”, “tokens used”, and “response length” 

Service limitations
==================================================================================
A Splunk Observability Cloud organization has a limit of 3,000 prompts per month and no more than 10 prompts per minute.

..  image:: /_images/rum/mobile-use-case-overview.png
    :width: 100%
    :alt: This image shows the location of the AI Assistant for Observability.




