(cpu)=

# CPU

<meta name="description" content="Use this Splunk Observability Cloud integration for the CPU monitor. See benefits, install, configuration, and metrics">

## Description

The {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>` provides this integration as the CPU monitor via the Smart Agent Receiver.

This monitor reports CPU metrics.


## Installation

This monitor is available in the SignalFx Smart Agent Receiver, which is part of the {ref}`Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector <otel-intro>`.

To install this integration:

1. Deploy the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector to your host or container platform.
2. Configure the monitor, as described in the next section.

## Configuration

The Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector allows embedding a Smart Agent monitor configuration in an associated Smart Agent Receiver instance.

**Note:** Providing a CPU monitor entry in your Smart Agent configuration is required for its use.

### Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector

If you are using the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector and want to collect CPU utilization metrics, use the {ref}`host-metrics-receiver`.

### Smart Agent

To use this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your agent configuration:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: cpu
   ...  # Additional config
```

On Linux hosts, this monitor relies on the `/proc` filesystem. If the underlying host's `/proc` file system is mounted somewhere other than `/proc`, specify the path using the top-level configuration `procPath`. Add the following to your configuration:

```
procPath: /custom_proc
monitors:
 - type: cpu
```

See <a href="https://docs.splunk.com/Observability/gdi/smart-agent/smart-agent-resources.html#configure-the-smart-agent" target="_blank">Smart Agent example configuration</a> for an autogenerated example of a YAML configuration file, with default values where applicable.
### Configuration settings

The following table shows the configuration options for the CPU monitor:

| Option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `reportPerCPU` | no | `bool` | If `true`, stats are generated for the system as a whole _as well as_ for each individual CPU/core in the system, and are distinguished by the `cpu` dimension.  If `false`, stats are only generated for the system as a whole, and don't include a `cpu` dimension. (**default:** `false`) |

## Metrics

The following metrics are available for this integration:

<div class="metrics-yaml" url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/main/pkg/monitors/cpu/metadata.yaml"></div>

## Get help

```{include} /_includes/troubleshooting.md
```
